## 1. Introduction

Online reviews (reviews for short herein) have become one of the most effectual information channels that bridge customers and their targeted products (services) (Yin et al. 2014). Many studies have provided theoretical and empirical evidence that reviews affect customers purchase intention (Forman et al. 2008, Li et al. 2019). Such an indispensable role of reviews for customers endows reviews with promising potential for revealing future sales (Zhu and Zhang 2010). Sales prediction, as a focal problem of operational researchers and practitioners, is conducive to retailers’ product operation and business value creation (Yu et al. 2012). Unlike conventional quantitative features for sales prediction, such as a product’s internal attributes (e.g., product type and historical sales) and environmental factors (e.g., market situation and holiday effect) (Tsoumakas 2019), reviews open up an avenue for unraveling the future trend of sales from the perspective of customers’ attitude toward and demand for the product.

As many studies have shown substantial impact of reviews on product sales (Chevalier and Mayzlin 2006, Forman et al. 2008, Zhu and Zhang 2010, van Nguyen et al. 2020), a straightforward way to realize reviewbased sales prediction is to incorporate all available review information with respect to a product, such as quantitative indicators (e.g., ratings and votes) and textual descriptions, into the prediction model. This, how ever, will inevitably incur predictive bias as only a small portion of reviews can be actually perceived and internalized by customers within a certain period (Li and Hitt 2008, Moe and Schweidel 2012), let alone some useless reviews (Qahri-Saremi and Montazemi 2019). On the other hand, although prior research has made several attempts at review-based sales prediction (Yu et al. 2012, van Nguyen et al. 2020), their provided solution approaches suffered serious deficiencies. From the data perspective, they commonly used unstructured reviews in quantitative ways. Textual reviews’ valence, extremity, and helpfulness votes have all been extensively investigated (Sahoo et al. 2018), whereas the predictive values of the semantic information conveyed in review texts and the visual information embedded in review images remain largely under-investigated. From the model perspective, original reviews were taken by a prediction model without effective differentiation, impeding the proper play of their predictive role.

Indeed, sales performance is inherently rooted in customers’ purchase intention, which is sensitive to customer’ past experiences and opinions conveyed by reviews (Sahoo et al. 2018). Furthermore, customers are more likely to be affected by the reviews they read carefully, whereas reviews that receive little scrutiny are less likely to affect customers’ purchase intention. Therefore, reviews that attract intensive customer attention<sup>1</sup> can be naturally expected to be more influential to customers purchase decisions and have more predictive capabilities on sales. In this vein, it is sensible to explore what kinds of reviews attract more customer attention and whether such reviews are more useful for sales prediction.

The value of reviews to customers has been assessed by information quality (Wang and Strong 1996), argument quality (Liu et al. 2020), and review helpfulness (Forman et al. 2008). There is a consensus that more helpful reviews tend to be perceived to have higher quality and exert greater impact on customers’ purchase intention (Filieri et al. 2018, Yin et al. 2020). Helpful reviews qualified by content-based indicators (e.g., valence, objectivity, and intelligibility), albeit with their considerable diagnostic values for customers’ product evaluation (Filieri 2015), may not necessarily be the most influential of the purchase intention of the customer base. This is because customers with heterogeneous preferences naturally favor reviews with different content characteristics (Moe and Schweidel 2012), and thus it is difficult to ascertain which content styles will receive customer attention steadily. The same review content can be differently or even conversely evaluated due to customers’ differential characteristics. There have been conflicting findings regarding review helpfulness; for example, negative reviews can exert both positive and hurtful effects on sales (Lee et al. 2008, Berger et al. 2010), and longer reviews can be both more and less helpful (Fink et al. 2018).

Customers’ attention paid to multimodal reviews is reflected in their browsing behaviors, which can be naturally characterized along the temporal and spatial dimensions. That is, the two dimensions coordinately depict the transitions of customer’s browsing attention over granularity levels of multimodal reviews and dif ferent stages. From a process perspective, customers attention and evaluation efforts paid to reviews can be understood over two stages of information processing, according to the message learning (Riley 1954) and infor mation processing (McGuire 1968) theories. Specifically, given a set of reviews, customers would first decide what kinds of reviews to pay attention to (i.e., the recep tion stage) and then comprehend the ones they heed to reach their product evaluation (i.e., the yielding stage). Although the aforementioned content-based helpful ness indicators indeed partially account for the yielding stage (Weathers et al. 2015), with the expectation that review characteristics good for diagnosticity will be more favorably evaluated (Kuan et al. 2015), they do not capture customers’ initial attention to reviews in the reception stage. In this regard, we posit that when faced with a vast number of reviews, customers are unlikely to evaluate all reviews by their diagnostic values. Rather, in practical scenarios, customers tend to only attend to a review subset to fulfill product evaluation while forgoing the others regardless of their helpfulness. This posit is consistent with the previous finding that review readers, with their limited attention spans, are unlikely to go through every review (Kuan et al. 2015). Therefore, we propose that customers’ initial attention to reviews, as an important prerequisite to their follow-up evaluation, should be attended to in sales prediction.

From a spatial perspective, we, conforming to customers’ browsing behaviors along a top-down (or bottom-up) roadmap, decompose their attention into fou granularity levels, that is, the holistic review set, review subset (along the temporal or topic dimension), individual review, and review element (modality) levels, respectively. For example, the process that customers drill down from the holistic review set to useful elementary review information (i.e., the top-down case) may span granularity levels from the holistic review set level all the way to the review element level. Given the reviews of a product, it is also possible that a customer would start at a certain information type of a review (e.g., release date, number of votes, text, or image) and then expand from it to more reviews successively (i.e., the bottom-up case). Overall, we strive to unravel customer attention with a process-granularity framework (elaborated in Section 3) and delve into our first research question (RQ1): What kinds of reviews conform to customer attention paid at different granularity levels in the purchase decision process?

On the ground of theoretical analysis (presented in Section 3), we posit that customers are likely to pay their timeliness attention, semantic diversity attention, votingawareness attention, and attention for multimodal interaction at the four granularity levels (from the holistic review set level to the review element level). At the holistic review set level, we, drawing on the dual-process theory (Groves and Thompson 1970), posit that customer attention is likely to dynamically focus on a set of timely reviews rather than being time invariant. At the topic level, studies concerning selection effect show that customers with heterogeneous preferences focus on diverse product attributes, causing their actually attended and perceived helpful reviews to differ from each other (Li and Hitt 2008, Moe and Schweidel 2012). At the review level, we consider the number of helpfulness votes, one of the most prevalent review helpfulness indicators that are likely to attract customers’ attention and comprehension efforts strongly (Mudambi and Schuff 2010, Kuan et al. 2015, Salehan and Kim 2016). At the review element level, we focus on the interactive role of heterogeneous review modalities in dispersing customer attention because typical reviews simultaneously contain textual descriptions and images. Based on the elaboration likelihood model (Petty and Cacioppo 1986), we posit that when customers fortify their purchase decisions by virtue of reviews, they may pay asymmetrical attention to texts versus images.

Overall, our induced indicators of customer attention include (1) timeliness, (2) semantic diversity, (3) review helpfulness, and (4) varying multimodal interaction.<sup>2</sup> Furthermore, given the prevalence and ubiquity of multimodal reviews<sup>3</sup> nowadays, an even more imminent research question (RQ2) is as follows: How can we leverage customer attention to enhance the effectiveness of multimodal reviews for sales prediction? In response to RQ2, we propose a deep learning method named DTV-AMI (for DTV attention-enhanced deep learning with adaptive attention for multimodal interaction) specifically designed for multimodal review–based sales prediction. DTV-AMI draws its strength from two components, that is, DTV (for semantic diversity, timeliness, and voting awareness attention mechanisms) and AMI (for adaptive attention mechanism for multimodal interaction), which are constructed based on four neural network attention mechanisms corresponding to the four customer attention indicators.

Specifically, our proposed DTV allows the prediction model to attend more to timely, semantically diverse, and voted reviews. Given a sequence of reviews for sales prediction, DTV deduces customer attention by recursively taking each review as a potential starting point of customers’ browsing behaviors, in response to the fact that customers arrive successively rather than at one stroke. While scanning the reviews dynamically, DTV attends more to timely, semantically diverse, and voted reviews. The proposed AMI further empowers the prediction model to make an adaptive tradeoff (i.e., weighting) between review text and images (if any) at each review point and differentiate such adaptive tradeoffs across different reviews, conforming to customers heterogeneous browsing behaviors. Overall, DTV-AMI incorporates our induced customer attention indicators to capitalize on multimodal reviews’ due predictive power on sales. Experiment results in a case study of sales<sup>4</sup> (specifically, monthly occupancy rate) prediction in the hotel industry with 2,685 hotels and their 1.2 million review texts and 197 thousand review images show that DTV-AMI outperformed benchmarked deep learning methods, demonstrating the value of customer attention for better leveraging multimodal reviews for sales prediction.
