## Discussion

Guided by the computational design science paradigm (Gregor & Hevner, 2013; Rai, 2017), our study concerns the emerging problem of the robustness of cyber defense AI agents against adversarial attacks. To address the problem, we extensively explored viable solutions and designed a novel IT artifact by drawing on two statistical learning theories: reinforcement learning (RL) and robust optimization (RO). The proposed IT artifact was instantiated in the context of adversarial malware attacks, where a novel RL-based method was implemented to emulate adversarial attacks, and RO was leveraged to strengthen the robustness of malware detectors. The instantiation of our RADAR framework outperformed the state-of-the-art benchmark methods in emulating adversarial malware attacks and robustifying malware detectors and provided actionable insights to inform the design of malware detectors.

Our contribution to the IS knowledge base is threefold. First, our RADAR framework contributes to the IS security research with a novel design for strengthening the robustness of cyber defense AI agents. While the adversarial nature of cyber defense has been recognized in behavioral and economic security research, prior research on cyber defense AI agents rarely examines the effectiveness of the AI agents in such adversarial environments. To this end, the RADAR framework models the adversarial environment with a two-player infinite game, resulting in a robust AI agent. Second, the proposed r-VAC contributes to the prescriptive knowledge of adversarial attack emulation by providing an effective approach to emulating adversaries that take sequential actions to conduct the attack. While most existing AAE methods overlook the sequence of actions for achieving successful adversarial attacks, our r-VAC method shows that explicitly modeling the sequence of actions not only results in more effective adversarial attacks but can also provide actionable insights for improving the design of cyber defense AI agents. Our findings suggest that revealing highly evasive action sequences can help designers discover and mitigate the vulnerabilities of cyber defense AI agents. Third, we contribute to robust optimization by validating and extending the theory in an emerging and high-impact cybersecurity domain. We found that modeling the game between the adversary and the cyber defense AI agent as a robust optimization problem is particularly effective for strengthening the robustness of cyber defense AI agents. Moreover, from a methodological perspective, our RL-RO approach extends the optimization objective to account for adversarial attacks achieved by taking sequences of discrete actions.

In practice, RADAR can serve as a sandbox environment that enables a continuous test-and-improvement loop, enabling the defenders to be one step ahead of the adversary. Such an improvement loop could reduce an organization’s vulnerability to unseen cyber attacks significantly. This has positive financial and practical implications across the industry. As shown in our experiments, RADAR effectively reduced malware attack success rates by up to seven times on average. Given the \$2.6M annual cost of malware attacks per firm, together with the recent 11% increase in malware attacks to IT firms (Bissell et al., 2019), the adoption of such AI-enabled cyber defense design can potentially generate sizable financial benefits for the industry.

Apart from the financial benefits, we foresee three categories of cyber defense stakeholders that can benefit from our study: cybersecurity managers, cyber defense providers, and cybersecurity analysts. Managers can continuously monitor the security posture of their AI-based cyber defense guided by the vulnerability reports generated from emulating adversarial attacks in RADAR. Cyber defense providers can benefit from the iterative feedback loop embedded in RADAR to increase the robustness of their AI-based cyber defense solutions before large-scale deployment in IT firms. Cybersecurity analysts, including malware analysts and other security practitioners in security operations centers (SOCs), can leverage RADAR as a tool to mitigate unseen attacks such as new adversarially generated malware variants. Although our research can potentially contribute to strengthening cyber defense in security organizations, precautionary measures are needed to ensure ethical usage and prevent unwanted misuse. These measures include restricting access to RADAR’s source code, granting access to only known academic research communities, or providing RADAR’s functionality as a secure service/API and monitoring its usage. With these measures in place, benevolent use can significantly outweigh malicious usage. Similar successful examples have been observed for other tools in the cybersecurity community (e.g., Kali Linux for penetration testing).

