## Introduction

Financial technology is transforming the world of financial services (Gomber et al., 2018). In this domain, using big data analytics to derive actionable decision-making, such as portfolio and risk management, has become a top priority for many financial institutions. In the big data era, investors are researching public companies using data from various sources beyond financial statements and accounting numbers. Managers are communicating with outside investors both verbally and nonverbally (Mayew & Venkatachalam, 2013). Massive amounts of unstructured multimedia data recording the verbal and vocal signals of managers, such as firm annual reports and the audio recordings of earnings conferences, are publicly available and can be accessed by individual and institutional investors. Anecdotal evidence has suggested that hedge fund companies are hiring ex-CIA agents trained in reading vocal cues to assess managers’ public statements at the earnings conference calls.<sup>2</sup> When managers speak, market participants listen and look for any competitive advantage they can find in the unstructured multimedia data.

In this study, we propose a design framework that utilizes managers’ vocal cues in earnings conference calls to forecast a firm’s financial risk. We empirically measure the financial risk of public firms, also known as stock volatility, as the standard deviation of the firm’s stock returns over a given period. In contrast directly forecasting stock returns, it is not controversial in the field of economics to forecast the volatility of a stock using publicly available information (Dumas et al., 2009). Financial risk plays a key role in many downstream tasks related to financial markets, such as investment portfolio management and risk management (Brooks & Persand, 2003; Brownlees & Gallo, 2010). It is also considered a key component of price evaluation in many well-established optionpricing models (Black & Scholes, 1973), and its forecasts are critical to derivatives trading. The derivatives markets are substantial components of global capital markets, and trading in equity options alone accounted for 7.5 trillion U.S. dollars in the first half of 2021.<sup>3</sup> Therefore, the ability to forecast the financial risk of publicly listed firms should be of great interest to practitioners, academics and regulators.

While the finance and accounting literatures have demonstrated that executives’ verbal linguistic words used in earnings conference calls are associated with firm performance, market reactions, and financial misreporting (Larcker & Zakolyukina, 2012; Li, 2010; Loughran & Mcdonald, 2016; Yan & Zheng, 2017), there is limited work examining the role of nonverbal vocal cues in earnings conference calls. Vocal cues, i.e., the sound of the voice used to send a verbal message, plays a significant role in nonverbal communication (Mehrabian, 1972). The human voice and associated speech patterns can be characterized by a number of vocal cues, such as pitch, volume, and so on. Using vocal emotion analysis software, Mayew and Venkatachalam (2012) found a correlation between managers’ vocal emotions and firms’ future performance. Recently, Mayew et al. (2020) identified a correlation between managers’ voice pitch and stock prices. However, those studies mostly focused on evaluating the explanatory power of vocal cues insample, whether nonverbal vocal cues provide significant predictive power out-of-sample is still largely unknown.

Moreover, existing vocal cue analysis methods and machine learning methods have been unable to provide adequate capability in audio data learning, due to three design challenges: time variation, vocal-verbal integration, and vocal complexity

Challenge 1: Time variation. Managers’ vocal features can vary substantially during conference calls. For example, during the presentation section, when the manager is reading a forward-looking statement, the voice pitch may be quite stable. However, individuals’ vocal cues may change as a result of being nervous, uncertain, or excited (Scherer et al., 1991). As such, in the question-answer section, when the manager is being scrutinized by analysts, the voice pitch may change. Mayew et al. (2020) found that the voice pitch of managers during dialogues with analysts is lower by about 4 Hz, on average, compared to their voice pitch during presentation sessions. Therefore, the time-varying patterns of managers’ vocal cues may contain useful information. However, prior studies have ignored the time-varying pattern of managers’ vocal cues in earnings conference calls (Mayew et al., 2020; Mayew & Venkatachalam, 2012), and it is unclear how a predictive model could effectively summarize time-varying vocal sequences.

Challenge 2: Vocal-verbal integration. According to nonverbal communication theory (Mehrabian, 1972), vocal cues play a key role in nonverbal communication, as they can either affirm or discredit a message. For example, if a manager claims the company has strong future growth but uses a pessimistic tone of voice, market participants listening to the conference call may spot the irregularity and interpret the verbal message differently. This implies that to accurately gauge the information contained in managers’ communication, one should integrate verbal language with the accompanying vocal cues. However, existing computational models (Poria et al., 2017) are limited in terms of integrating these two different communication channels (i.e., vocal and verbal).

Challenge 3: Vocal complexity. Identifying the specific acoustic constructs from voice is a complex process, and the literature is still evolving without any consensus on an appropriate model for measuring affective states, emotions, and trust (Mayew & Venkatachalam, 2013). There is also little agreement about how a speaker’s vocal cues should be combined to identify emotional states (Schuller, 2010)—e.g., which vocal cues to investigate and measure and how much weight to place on each vocal cue. As a result, attempts to develop constructs from vocal cues may suffer from high measurement errors.

Therefore, the objective of this study is to develop an effective design artifact for predicting firm financial risk using managers’ vocal cues that has better performance than that achieved by previous efforts. To achieve this objective, we adopt the design science paradigm (Gregor & Hevner, 2013; Hevner et al., 2004) to guide the development of the IT artifact. In doing so, we select Mehrabian’s communication model (MCM) (Mehrabian, 1972) as the kernel theory (Walls et al., 1992). Guided by the MCM theory, we identify metarequirements for the design and propose metadesigns to address above-mentioned challenges. We also instantiate a system, which we call DeepVoice, that integrates metadesigns for financial risk prediction.

We tested the validity of DeepVoice design using a unique dataset of 6,047 conference calls (text and audio) from S&P 500 firms between 2015 and 2018. We rigorously evaluated the overall effectiveness of DeepVoice and each metadesign in a series of experiments. The experimental results show that the DeepVoice framework is remarkably effective and can significantly improve out-of-sample forecast accuracy. We further demonstrate that the improvement in out-ofsample prediction performance can translate into nontrivial economic gains in options trading.

This study contributes to the literature both methodologically and empirically. First, we develop the DeepVoice framework, which integrates deep learning techniques and nonverbal communication theory via a design science artifact to predict firm financial risk. This new method achieves substantially better performance than that obtained by previous research. Moreover, the design principles summarized from our design can generalize to domains with similar data types or characteristics. Practically, in the era of big data and fintech, financial institutions and investors are investing a lot of resources in financial information systems, hoping that big multimedia data (such as text and audio archives) will generate new actionable insights. However, the promise of business value from unstructured audio data has not materialized. This study responds to the call to study unstructured multimedia data to derive rich insights and tackles the formidable methodological challenges associated with the analysis of unstructured big data (Agarwal & Dhar, 2014).

Second, this study contributes to the empirical literature on financial risk prediction. To the best of our knowledge, this study is among the first to study the prediction of market reactions using nonverbal information. Using a large-scale dataset containing over 6,000 audio recordings from earnings conference calls, we empirically document a significantly higher accuracy of financial risk forecast by integrating nonverbal vocal cues with traditional attributes such as financial fundamentals, historical risks, and verbal information. We also demonstrate that the improvement in risk forecast translates into nontrivial economic gains in options trading. The empirical findings of this study strengthen the understanding of the value of nonverbal communication in financial markets. Our results also have implications for researchers, investors, and regulators.
