## Introduction With the recent increase in the scale and severity of cyber attacks, artificial intelligence (AI) agents have been developed to automate cyber defense in information technology (IT) infrastructure (Apruzzese et al., 2019; Rai, 2017). Cyber defense AI agents have demonstrated the ability to effectively detect and remediate threats at an unprecedented scale (Tolido et al., 2019). New AI agents, including deep neural networks, have shown promise in rapidly detecting unseen malware files and network intrusions (Goodfellow et al., 2018). For instance, AI-based malware detectors can detect unseen mobile Android malware with 96% precision without expensive dynamic malware analysis (Narayanan et al., 2018). Today, leading cybersecurity and IT firms are weaving AI-enabled cyber defense into their operational fabric to protect their IT infrastructure with automated malware detection, intrusion detection, and spam filtering. For example, Avast and Symantec, two major cybersecurity firms, benefit from deep neural networks in their proprietary antivirus products. Endgame uses gradient boosting trees in its open-source malware detector (Anderson et al., 2018; Bloomberg, 2018; Song et al., 2022). A large-scale international survey of IT firms revealed that 69% of them believe they cannot accomplish cyber defense without AI agents (Tolido et al., 2019). However, AI agents have been found to be vulnerable to adversarial attacks—adversarial data inputs meticulously modified by an adversary to mislead the AI agent (Yuan et al., 2019). Cyber defense AI agents are no exception (Apruzzese et al., 2019). For instance, a previously known malicious executable could be modified to evade an AI malware detector by first changing the signature section and subsequently resetting the file checksum. As another example, malicious network packets could be modified to evade an intrusion detection system by performing encoding followed by fragmentation. In both cases, an adversary crafts adversarial inputs by taking steps of meticulous and hard-to-notice changes to the original malicious input (Goodfellow et al., 2018; Monteiro et al., 2019). The vulnerability of cyber defense AI agents to adversarial attacks is construed as an emerging threat to autonomous cyber defense (Goosen et al., 2018). While cyber defense AI agents are increasingly relied on to protect IT infrastructure, little is known about strengthening the robustness of these agents against adversarial attacks. In this study, we aim to strengthen the robustness of cyber defense AI agents by leveraging the theories of robust optimization (RO) and reinforcement learning (RL). RO provides a rigorous framework to incorporate the effect of an adversary in the optimization process of learning an AI agent (Bertsimas et al., 2010). This framework promotes a twoplayer game between the adversary and the AI agent (Madry et al., 2018). In the cyber defense context, RO introduces an adversary who generates evasive adversarial attacks and trains an AI agent that learns from these attacks to improve its robustness. As such, RO establishes that robust defense requires effective adversarial attack emulation (AAE) (Kolter & Madry, 2018). As adversarial attacks often involve taking a sequence of actions to modify the malicious input against the cyber defense AI agent (Anderson et al., 2018; Fang et al., 2019), AAE can benefit from modeling the steps taken by the adversary in attacking the cyber defense AI agents. RL specializes in examining the sequential interaction of an actor (e.g., adversary) with the environment (e.g., IT infrastructure equipped with an AI-enabled detector) over discrete time steps (Sutton & Barto, 2018). RL is thus well-suited for emulating the steps (i.e., the sequence of actions) an adversary takes to craft adversarial attacks. Additionally, the sequence of actions captured by RL is useful for gaining insights into the adversary’s strategies and further enhancing the cyber defense AI agent (Anderson et al., 2018). Drawing on the computational design science paradigm, we leverage RO and RL to develop a novel RL-based adversarial attack robustness (RADAR) framework for enhancing the robustness of cyber defense AI agents. RADAR discovers effective adversarial attacks and prepares cyber defense AI agents to remediate them. Specifically, RADAR offers a novel RL approach to emulate adversarial attacks and presents a novel RL-based RO formalization to strengthen the robustness of cyber defense AI agents against adversarial attacks. Given that malware attacks are the leading threat to IT infrastructure (Bissell et al., 2019), we instantiate our RADAR framework for adversarial malware attacks, evaluate the effectiveness of RADAR against state-of-the-art adversarial malware emulation and RL benchmark methods, and present the utility of RADAR on malware detector robustification. Our experiments showed that RADAR increased the robustness of evaluated malware detectors by seven times, on average, and provided useful insights into designing more robust AI-based malware detectors. Overall, this study makes three major contributions. First, we propose a framework for strengthening the robustness of cyber defense AI agents against adversarial inputs at a large scale. To our knowledge, this is the first robustification framework modeling the adversarial game between the adversary and the cyber defense AI agent. Second, we develop a novel RL method for emulating sequences of adversarial attack actions taken by adversaries. In addition to outperforming the state-of-the-art adversarial attack emulation, our proposed method provides actionable insights into the vulnerabilities of cyber defense AI agents. Third, we design a novel RL-based RO method that is empirically tested to be effective in strengthening the robustness of cyber defense AI agents. The study provides cyber defense practitioners with practical insights, including the significant improvement of adversarial malware detection rate and the behavior of the repeated game between the adversary and malware detector. ## Research Background Four major areas of research are examined. First, we review the information systems (IS) literature on defending IT infrastructure. Second, we explore the theory of robust optimization (RO) as the overarching framework for improving the robustness of cyber defense AI agents. Third, we review AAE to examine effective approaches to automatically emulating adver
