[P1] Financial intermediaries are essential for investors because they exhibit a strong influence not only on financial performance but also on wealth and life planning. Intermediaries such as investment advisors screen the market and suggest investment opportunities, while other actors, such as brokers, provide market access for trading financial instruments, enabling investors to participate in financial markets (Allen & Santomero, 1997). With increased usage of the internet and electronic communication, personal interactions between investors and financial intermediaries have significantly diminished, potentially impeding the trust building process (Ba & Pavlou, 2002; Castells, 2010). In addition, the global financial crisis and widely publicized financial market manipulations have challenged investors’ confidence in financial intermediaries and the financial system as a whole (Palazzo & Rethel, 2008). In fact, the issue of misconduct and fraud by intermediaries was raised by the film industry in the 2013 movie The Wolf of Wall Street, which is based on the memoirs of the former stockbroker Jordan Belfort. Belfort defrauded 1,513 clients and was responsible for investor losses of approximately USD 200 million (Bloomberg, 2018). Fraud and misconduct reduce investors’ willingness to rely on intermediaries for participation in financial markets and thus negatively affect market-based allocation decisions and the economy as a whole. Consequently, regulatory interventions and new instruments are needed to increase trust and ensure the proper functioning of the financial system. Information systems and analytics play a crucial role within this context because they can help identify misconduct and thus increase trust in financial markets by preventing the next Wolf of Wall Street.

[P2] Previous studies have proposed various approaches to identifying different kinds of financial market manipulations (Ngai et al., 2011). However, these studies have neglected the identification of financial intermediaries who are likely to commit misconduct. Currently, social media networks provide an important source of information regarding potential and ongoing business contacts and relationships and are thus increasingly relevant for selecting financial intermediaries (Bazarova & Choi, 2014; Krasnova et al., 2010). Therefore, many professionals, including financial intermediaries, make use of these networks for advertising and to establish contacts. Personal information disclosed within social media networks can be confirmed by external sources, leading to different levels of information reliability. However, self-disclosed information that is subjected to different levels of external verification, has not yet been considered as a means of identifying intermediary misconduct.

[P3] Based on information manipulation theory (McCornack, 1992), we argue that the information disclosure of intermediaries who are likely to commit misconduct differs from that of reliable market participants. Moreover, drawing on warranting theory (Walther et al., 2009), we propose that external verification of self-disclosed information provides additional value for the identification of misconduct. Following this rationale, we address the following research question: Can self-disclosed information that is subjected to different levels of external verification be used to detect financial intermediaries who are likely to commit misconduct?

[P4] In this paper, we identify different feature sets that enable investors and regulatory/supervisory authorities to distinguish financial intermediaries who have committed financial misconduct from reliable ones. We compose a comprehensive dataset of information that is self-disclosed by financial intermediaries on the professional social media network LinkedIn. Additionally, we extract information regarding misconduct from BrokerCheck, an open access database operated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA),<sup>1</sup> and match this information with profiles on LinkedIn.

[P5] We evaluate different classification models that automatically detect financial intermediaries who are likely to commit misconduct by making use of several feature sets that include different levels of external verification. Furthermore, we examine the economic relevance of our classifiers by means of an economic evaluation based on payments of victim compensation and fines. We find that self-disclosed information provided by financial intermediaries is valuable for detecting financial intermediary misconduct. Specifically, classifiers that also take externally verified information into account achieve a high level of classification performance and their application offers considerable economic value to society.

[P6] Our study has important implications for research. Based on information manipulation theory as well as warranting theory, we outline the relevance of selfdisclosed information and different levels of external verification of such information for the detection of intermediary misconduct. Confirming information manipulation theory, we show that there is a difference between the self-disclosed information of honest versus dishonest financial intermediaries that can be used to identify intermediary misconduct. In line with warranting theory, information that is externally verified significantly increases classification performance.

[P7] Moreover, our results are also highly relevant from a societal and economic point of view, as they enable building classifiers for the automated identification of financial intermediary misconduct. Such classifiers may be used by investors to screen intermediaries in advance, thereby reducing the likelihood of incurring losses through misconduct. An automated classification system is also helpful for regulatory authorities to establish fair and efficient markets. Regulatory/supervisory authorities have limited resources to oversee the large number of financial intermediaries executing an ever-increasing number of client transactions. Therefore, such models support authorities’ engagement in predictive supervision by allowing them to allocate their resources more efficiently to identify and closely monitor intermediaries that are more likely to commit misconduct. Using data analytics and machine learning techniques, we contribute to the societal and economic challenge of how to build or rebuild trust in financial markets via the identification of intermediaries who engage in misconduct.

[P8] The paper proceeds as follows. In Section 2, we provide background information on financial market misconduct and its detection. Then, we develop our research hypotheses based on the theories underlying our feature selection. Section 3 presents our dataset and research methodology, especially the different classification models applied to detect financial misconduct that use unverified and externally verified self-disclosed information. Subsequently, in Section 4, we present, evaluate, and discuss the results of our empirical study, and then conclude with Section 5.

