##### radar len 142401 #####

KW[Our contribution to the IS knowledge base is threefold]: ... to emulate adversarial attacks, and RO was leveraged to strengthen the robustness of malware detectors. The instantiation of our RADAR framework outperformed the state-of-the-art benchmark methods in emulating adversarial malware attacks and robustifying malware detectors and provided actionable insights to inform the design of malware detectors. Our contribution to the IS knowledge base is threefold. First, our RADAR framework contributes to the IS security research with a novel design for strengthening the robustness of cyber defense AI agents. While the adversarial nature of cyber defense has been recognized in behavioral and economic security research, prior research on cyber defense AI agents rarely examines the effectiveness of the AI agents in such adversarial environments. To this...

KW[Specifically, RADAR offers]: ...ense AI agent (Anderson et al., 2018). Drawing on the computational design science paradigm, we leverage RO and RL to develop a novel RL-based adversarial attack robustness (RADAR) framework for enhancing the robustness of cyber defense AI agents. RADAR discovers effective adversarial attacks and prepares cyber defense AI agents to remediate them. Specifically, RADAR offers a novel RL approach to emulate adversarial attacks and presents a novel RL-based RO formalization to strengthen the robustness of cyber defense AI agents against adversarial attacks. Given that malware attacks are the leading threat to IT infrastructure (Bissell et al., 2019), we instantiate our RADAR framework for adversarial malware attacks, evaluate the effectiveness of RADAR against state-of-the-art adversarial malw...

KW[novel RL-based RO formalization]: ...we leverage RO and RL to develop a novel RL-based adversarial attack robustness (RADAR) framework for enhancing the robustness of cyber defense AI agents. RADAR discovers effective adversarial attacks and prepares cyber defense AI agents to remediate them. Specifically, RADAR offers a novel RL approach to emulate adversarial attacks and presents a novel RL-based RO formalization to strengthen the robustness of cyber defense AI agents against adversarial attacks. Given that malware attacks are the leading threat to IT infrastructure (Bissell et al., 2019), we instantiate our RADAR framework for adversarial malware attacks, evaluate the effectiveness of RADAR against state-of-the-art adversarial malware emulation and RL benchmark methods, and present the utility of RADAR on malware detector ...

KW[strengthening the robustness of cyber defense AI agents]: ...nt the utility of RADAR on malware detector robustification. Our experiments showed that RADAR increased the robustness of evaluated malware detectors by seven times, on average, and provided useful insights into designing more robust AI-based malware detectors. Overall, this study makes three major contributions. First, we propose a framework for strengthening the robustness of cyber defense AI agents against adversarial inputs at a large scale. To our knowledge, this is the first robustification framework modeling the adversarial game between the adversary and the cyber defense AI agent. Second, we develop a novel RL method for emulating sequences of adversarial attack actions taken by adversaries. In addition to outperforming the state-of-the-art adversarial attack emulation, our propos...

KW[we develop]: ...ectors. Overall, this study makes three major contributions. First, we propose a framework for strengthening the robustness of cyber defense AI agents against adversarial inputs at a large scale. To our knowledge, this is the first robustification framework modeling the adversarial game between the adversary and the cyber defense AI agent. Second, we develop a novel RL method for emulating sequences of adversarial attack actions taken by adversaries. In addition to outperforming the state-of-the-art adversarial attack emulation, our proposed method provides actionable insights into the vulnerabilities of cyber defense AI agents. Third, we design a novel RL-based RO method that is empirically tested to be effective in strengthening the robustness of cyber defense AI agents. The study provid...

KW[we propose]: ...enchmark methods, and present the utility of RADAR on malware detector robustification. Our experiments showed that RADAR increased the robustness of evaluated malware detectors by seven times, on average, and provided useful insights into designing more robust AI-based malware detectors. Overall, this study makes three major contributions. First, we propose a framework for strengthening the robustness of cyber defense AI agents against adversarial inputs at a large scale. To our knowledge, this is the first robustification framework modeling the adversarial game between the adversary and the cyber defense AI agent. Second, we develop a novel RL method for emulating sequences of adversarial attack actions taken by adversaries. In addition to outperforming the state-of-the-art adversarial a...

KW[guarantee]: ...hange $\Delta L \leftarrow L - L'$ $L' \leftarrow L \setminus$ update the defense AI agent's loss $\phi' \leftarrow \phi \setminus$ Store the robustified model's parameters Return robustified AI agent $h_{\phi'}$. </div> ## Appendix E ## Empirical Efficiency Analysis of RADAR Due to the lack of a closed-form solution for the RL objective function, guaranteed convergence analysis could be impractical and challenging; therefore, we performed an empirical time analysis of attack generation per malware type to provide insights on the empirical time complexity of RADAR when used to emulate adversarial attacks for an AI-enabled detector (MalConv in this case). Table E1 shows the results in terms of mean elapsed time in seconds. <table><tr><td colspan="8">Table E1. RADAR&#x27;s Mean Elapsed Time ...
##### artext len 107938 #####

KW[technology threat avoidance]: ...exploit the vulnerabilities of these SML models and mislead predictive analytics into erroneous decisions. Due to the limited understanding and awareness of such adversarial attacks, the predictive analytics knowledge and deployment need a principled technique for adversarial robustness assessment and enhancement. In this research, we leverage the technology threat avoidance theory as the kernel theory and propose a research framework for assessing and enhancing the adversarial robustness of predictive analytics applications. We instantiate the proposed framework by developing a robust text classification system, the ARText system. The proposed system is rigorously evaluated in comparison with benchmark methods on two tasks extensively enabled by SML: spam review detection and spam email d...

KW[robustness measure]: ...tacks through ensemble learning and adversarial retraining. The subsequent sections elaborate on the meta-design for each meta-requirement. ## Adversarial Robustness Assessment Drawing upon the existing practices, we propose to quantify the adversarial robustness of the SML model through empirical analysis. In particular, the empirical adversarial robustness measures a model’s robustness to a set of adversarial samples through the impact of adversarial samples on the model’s predictive performance. In particular, our proposed adversarial robustness assessment involves two steps: (1) adversarial sample generation and (2) adversarial robustness measurement. The former aims to emulate adversarial attacks by generating adversarial samples, whereas the latter seeks to measure the model’s advers...

KW[robustness enhancement]: ...tion of a framework capable of appraising the threat to the SML model imposed by adversarial attacks and coping with the threat to safeguard the SML model. As such, our proposed design framework, as shown in Figure 1, consists of two major meta-requirements [55]: adversarial robustness assessment (corresponding to threat appraisal) and adversarial robustness enhancement (corresponding to threat coping). The adversarial robustness assessment meta-requirement primarily seeks to appraise the susceptibility of the SML model to adversarial attacks. The adversarial robustness enhancement meta-requirement mainly aims to cope with adversarial attacks through strengthening the resilience of the SML model to adversarial attacks. Specifically, the framework enhances its ability to cope with adversari...

KW[we develop]: ... our proposed framework comprises a novel assessment model for evaluating the adversarial robustness of a predictive analytics application, and design principles for enhancing the adversarial robustness of predictive analytics applications. We demonstrate the efectiveness of our framework in the context of text classification tasks. In particular, we develop the ARText system, which jointly incorporates ensemble learning and adversarial retraining to improve its robustness to adversarial attacks. To rigorously evaluate our proposed system, we conducted two sets of evaluations on the testbeds of spam review detection and spam email detection. The first set of evaluations examined the utility of our proposed adversarial robustness assessment. The second set of evaluations gauged the eficacy ...

KW[we propose]: ...critical research questions relating to the adversarial robustness of predictive analytics applications: (1) How to assess the robustness of predictive analytics applications to adversarial attacks? (2) How to improve the robustness of predictive analytics applications in an adversarial context? Drawing upon the technology threat avoidance theory, we propose a research framework for assessing and enhancing the adversarial robustness of predictive analytics applications. The research framework seeks to provide a principled approach for improving the adversarial robustness of existing predictive analytics applications. We further instantiate the proposed framework by developing a robust text classification system. Leveraging the technology threat avoidance theory as a kernel theory, our prop...
##### dsdl len 116323 #####

KW[we propose]: ...an be revealed by the discrepancy between prior expectation and actual experience, is a key factor to disentangle customers purchase intention, whereas black-box deep learning methods empirically promise us advantageous capabilities in dealing with complex voice data, for example, text and audio information incorporated in voice chat. To this end, we propose a theory-driven deep learning method that enables us to (1) learn customers’ personalized product preferences and dynamic satisfaction in the absence of their profile information, (2) model customers’ actual experiences based on multiview voice chat information in an interlaced way, and (3) enhance the customer response prediction performance of a black-box deep learning mode with theory-driven dynamic satisfaction. Empirical evaluatio...
##### acaa len 116389 #####

KW[we propose]: ...level. Helpful reviews qualified by such simple indicators, however, may not necessarily yield accurate sales predictions, owing to the ever-evolving review information quality, customer demand, and product attributes. Positing that reviews with higher customer attention should be more influential to customers purchase intention and product sales, we propose to leverage customer attention to better realize the potential of multimodal reviews for sales prediction. We conceptualize customer attention at the holistic review set, review subset, individual review, and review element levels, respectively, and induce four indicators of customer attention, that is, timeliness, semantic diversity, voting awareness, and varying multimodal interaction. We then propose a deep learning method, which in...
